# Data files used by the scripts in this repo

## Chromosome sizes
The file `hg19.chrom.sizes` was obtained from the database associated
with the UCSC Genome Browser using the `fetchChromSizes` script
available from:
```
https://github.com/ucscGenomeBrowser/kent/blob/master/src/utils/userApps/fetchChromSizes
```
The format is two columns, one for the name of the chromosome, and one
for the size of the chromosome. Not all chromosomes named in this file
need to be used, but all chromosomes used in the CNV analysis must be
present (with their sizes) in this file.

## Bin definitions 
The CNV analysis begins with counts of reads in
genomic bins. The bins are defined to have roughly equal size, but
account for mappability, so the sizes vary slightly. We use files
originally generated by scripts provided along with the publication:
```
Baslan, Timour et al. (2012)
Genome-wide copy number analysis of single cells.
Nature Protocols, 7(6):1024.
```
We then modified these files to be in 3-column BED format (chrom,
start, end). There are files for 5k bins, 20k bins, and 50k bins. The
files are named like `bins_5k_hg19.bed`.

## GC content information
The analysis uses information about GC content of each bin. This
information is contained in files named `bins_5k_hg19_gc.txt` and
these are loaded by an R script as data frames. The R script uses the
order of lines to associate the GC content values with the genomic
bins (not good design). Only one field is used, and has column name
`gc.content`. These files also have a rowname in the form
`chr1_123456` to indicate the starting position of the associated bin
(row names are ignored when these files are used).

## Bad bins
Experience of others who have run similar analyses using a similar
pipeline and the same sets of intervals has shown that certain parts
of the genome attract an unusual amount of reads. For each of the bin
counts (5k, 20k, 50k) a list of "bad bins" are kept in files named
like `bins_5k_hg19_exclude.txt`. The format is simply the line
numbers, in the corresponding bed file, of the bins to exclude from
the CNV analysis.
